This article discusses the power of meditation and how beneficial it is for the body. Magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) has shown many positive brain changes and improved several brain functions. Meditation has
several benefits improving the immune system and inflammatory processes by decreasing cytokine;
appropriate telomere shortening also has helped healthy aging. Regarding physical health, meditation has
been beneficial in various multi-factorial diseases like diabetes, hypertension, and fibromyalgia. It has also
helped bring down blood cholesterol levels and increase high-density lipoproteins (HDL) levels.
Improvement was also seen in systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Mental health is another aspect
influenced by meditation, as positive emotion brought about by meditation helps address various mental
problems like social anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety, and depression.
Overall, it seems to have some impact in all health areas. However, the magnitude of its effect is not known.
More diverse and detailed studies should yield more beneficial clinical outcomes.

Everything in our daily life starts from one essential thing known as our thoughts. The most important
question that needs answering is how much our thoughts impact our everyday life. What changes can we
bring about if we can change it? "Mindfulness," also known as meditation and reflection, is the relationship
between internal and environmental consciousness [1]. When studied about meditation in the light of
neuroscience, our brain indeed has a system through which we can get rid of maladaptive thoughts and
restructure our brain [1]. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans have pointed out that meditation leads to
widespread changes in the brain along with the activation of emotional and cognitive centers of the brain
[2]. Meditation has shown promising results with age-related brain aging in younger and middle-aged
individuals and improved various brain functions, including cognition and other executive functions [3].

It is observed that constant reinforcement of happy thoughts is good for the well-being of both mental and
physical health [4]. Moreover, positive reviews positively impact our immune health by reducing interleukin
six (IL-6) levels [4]. Such changes at a biological level mean our thoughts have some effect on our physical
system. It might be possible that other body systems have a similar impact on our body, and mindfulness
can help us yield those hidden gems in our biological system. As seen in the effect on our immune system,
our genes are also affected. Effective meditation has had changes in telomerase shortening, which means the
aging process can be delayed, as the longevity of our cells tends to increase with appropriate telomerase
regulation [5]. The best thing about our brain is that it is a highly complex and neuroplastic structure;
however, its scope and diversity are yet to be determined, and how much energy and possibility is there
remains a mystery [6]. Is it possible for the way we think to become our reality, and if it is confirmed by
memorizing and rehearsing our health, will we be able to change it?

This literature review will shed some light on how mindfulness and our thinking pattern are vital
components of our health. With the help of studies, we will decipher if meditation or mindfulness is
responsible for significantly changing mental and physical states. This review will also discuss if any changes
are occurring at the genetic level or if any changes are observed in our immune system or our inflammatory
markers.

This section will focus in-depth on the various aspects of meditation, and through studies, we will see if
there is any proven benefit to the mental and physical health of people who meditate. Furthermore, we will
see if there are any fruitful benefits at the genetic or immunological level due to meditation. Figure 1 below
shows the areas of health to be discussed that are influenced by meditation.


Several studies should be conducted to conclude meditation's impact on our immune health. We looked at a
randomized control trial (RCT) done on 1062 participants, and various areas of our immune system were
evaluated. It showed that there was a decrease in nuclear factor kappa b (Nf-kb) and C-reactive protein
(CRP) levels. An increase in the level of the cluster of differentiation four plus t (CD4+T) cells was seen as an
effect of meditation [7]. No effect was there in interleukin one, interleukin six, interleukin eight, interleukin
ten, interferon-gamma, influenza, immunoglobulin A (IgA), and immunoglobulin G (IgG), respectively [7].
The study showed some impact on the immune system, but no effect is seen on the interleukins and
immunoglobulins. To further assess our immune system, we looked at another RCT. The trial included 26
studies, and different mind-body techniques (MBT) were used, which included yoga, meditation, taichi, and
qigong.

In the second study, the results were very similar to those seen in the previous study; no difference was seen
in IL-6 levels reduction in the level of Nf-kb. Mixed results were seen when it comes to CRP levels, half of
the studies showed no change, whereas half of the studies showed a decreased level of CRP [8]. These mixed
results seen in the second study for CRP were probably because of the low power of the study due to a few
limitations. For example, the sample size used for the analysis was minimal, the follow-up period was very
small, and the inflammatory states of the patients might have contributed to the bias. However, still, the
results were close to the previous study. To further strengthen our results, another analysis with 34 studies
published in 39 articles with 2219 participants was performed. It included the same mind-body training as
seen in the previous survey (meditation, yoga, Tai chi, and qigong). The results are looked at between seven
to 16 weeks, and they showed that CRP levels reduced minor non-statistically significant changes seen in IL-
6. Antiviral immune responses in natural killer cells, tumor necrosis factor-α, and CD4 count were
negligible. However, the immune response to the viral vaccine was observed through mindfulness [9]. As
seen in the studies, we can conclude that there is a decrease in inflammatory mediators. No significant
change is seen in interleukin. However, the intensity and the clinical impact of mindfulness on our immune
system are not known; further studies might help in figuring out its clinical implications. Table 1 below
compares the two studies

The immune system is not the only system affected by meditation; some studies suggest that meditation
affects the length of telomeres [7]. Telomeres are proteins that protect our chromosomes from cell death;
increased psycho-social stress increases cell death due to telomere shortening. Still, meditation has been
known to increase healthy cell aging due to better regulation of the telomere length [10]. So far, out of 19
studies, two cross-sectional studies showed an increase in telomere length, and nine out of 11 studies
showed a telomerase-related increase in telomere length. When the survey of the telomerase-related
increase in telomere length is seen for increased duration and intensity, only two out of the nine studies
showed a telomerase-related increase in telomere length, and the remaining studies showed no significant
change [11].To further verify our conclusion, in another study, 70 trained meditators were selected from
meditation training centers from different parts of the island, and only 30 subjects were included in the
study after screening; likewise, 30 age- and gender-matched non-meditators were used as the comparison
group, and the results showed that the group with meditators showed better quality of life; moreover, the
telomerase level was increased in the group of people who meditated compared to non-meditators [11].
These studies show that meditation increases the telomere length and telomerase level, increasing cellular
life by preventing telomere shortening. The telomere effect is not the only effect of meditation on our genes,
as meditation affects cells in our system at an epigenetic level [11]. When observed, it was seen that
meditation reduces methylation of tumor necrosis factor genes related to psycho-social stress in females;
moreover, a decrease in methylation of cells involved in immune metabolism was also seen, which would
help in enhancing the immune system [11]. The widespread immunological and genetic effects of meditation
show how deeply routed the products are, as our immunity and genetics are considered to be a vital part of
our overall health, and affecting both systems can be very fruitful in modern medicine.

This section will focus on the effects of meditation on different diseases and whether including such
practices in your treatment will be of any clinical benefit. One of the widespread multi-factorial diseases is
hypertension. Hypertension is usually considered to be caused by poor lifestyle factors and increased
sensitivity of the autonomic system, and one of the most important factors is stress. Meditation is a great
way to reduce the harmful effects of hypertension [12]. A systematic review and meta-analysis of RCTs were
conducted to assess the impact of meditation on systolic and diastolic blood pressure. Six studies were
included, which showed a statistically significant effect on diastolic blood pressure reduction compared to
the control; on the other hand, the systolic blood pressure results were statistically significant at a very
marginal level.

Moreover, those people who were on anti-hypertensive medication showed a better influence on systolic
blood pressure with meditation compared to those without a prescription [13]. Another study was done in
Korea. This time both hypertensive and diabetic patients were selected as subjects and the effect of
education classes (controls) versus brain-education-based meditation (BEM) was studied. In this study, we
looked at 48 patients with either diabetes or hypertension. They were divided into two groups, with either
BEM or education classes, and the study was conducted for eight weeks in the Ulsan Junggu Public Health
Center. Then we looked at levels of glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase, serum glutamic-pyruvic
transaminase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein
(LDL), expression of inflammatory genes, and reports on physical and mental health were determined. There
was a significant decrease in LDL level (13.82; p<0.05) expression of inflammatory genes (0.3-, 0.5-, and 0.2-
fold change for Nf-kb 2, v-rel reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog A (RELA), and interleukin one B
(IL1-B), respectively, P<0.05); however, no difference was seen in the remaining biochemical markers
including HDL [13]. The results are shown in table 2 below. As discussed, meditation can be a valuable
adjunct to other pharmacological interventions, as it has shown some benefits in diabetic and hypertensive
patients. Meditation has also shown benefits in diseases like fibromyalgia [14]. The physical effects of


Further studies were conducted to check the effect of systolic and diastolic blood pressures on meditation in
2007, which were considered to be a high-quality study in which the sample size was between 37 and 106, as
discussed below. The subjects were tested after three months for the meditative intervention; it was seen
that there was a 4.3 mm reduction in systolic blood pressure and a 3.11 mm decrease in diastolic blood
pressure with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of -6.02 to -0.57 and -4.22 to -3.06, respectively. The result
indicated that meditation was four times more effective in reducing blood pressure compared to health
education [15]. It has also been seen that meditation has also shown benefits in chronic inflammatory
conditions, including asthma and rheumatoid arthritis [16,17]. A systematic literature search was done to see
the effect of mindfulness, yoga, and meditation on rheumatoid arthritis, and data from different databases
were taken. Out of 1527 studies, only 23 studies were carried. It was interesting to see the effect it has on
people who are depressed and the impact on symptoms and disease markers. The results showed that people
who meditated had better outcomes, especially those who were depressed. It was also seen that patients felt
better subjectively, but there was no difference seen in disease markers like CRP or active disease [17]. The
studies discussed so far show that meditation has proven beneficial to some extent to the physical health of
the patients.

This section will discuss the benefits that can be attained from meditation on our mental health. Meditation
is derived from the Buddhist culture, where they believed that "Sukh" or happiness is something that can be
achieved by immersing into the nature of reality and by focusing on the present [4]. It has also been shown
that meditation increases happiness by explicitly increasing the positive emotional response within the
human body [4]. The question remains whether this positive emotional reinforcement affects our mental
health clinically. We studied the effect of meditation on mental health. A pilot study was done to check the
efficacy of a smartphone-based app to check mood symptoms in cancer patients following meditation. There
were several different scales used to assess mood symptoms, and the reading was taken at baseline and an
interval of two weeks. There were 35 participants in the study, of which 18 were controls, and 17 were doing
meditation. The results revealed a proportional increase in the meditation duration and the improvement of
mood symptoms.

Moreover, one of the scales reported improvement in sleep, focus, and mood in the meditation group
compared to the intervention group. It showed improved mood symptoms following meditation [18]. The
effect of meditation on mental health is not only restricted to minor signs of anxiety but has also been
shown to decrease the impact of suicidal thoughts and behavior. A systematic review was done in December
2020 to check whether meditation affects suicidal thoughts and behavior. A total of 14 studies were included
from various databases, and all of them showed a reduction in suicidal behavior and ideas, especially those
who had major depressive disorder [19].

In today's world, a very under-spoken problem present in our society, which is also considered a global
concern nowadays, is "loneliness" [20]. A study was conducted to test whether meditation helps develop
social relationship processes. In this study, meditation skills like monitoring of present moment and
acceptance might help in improving social relations. The intervention was smartphone-based and included
training in monitoring plus approval, monitoring only, and active control in the present moment and
acceptance. There were 153 randomly assigned subjects to 14 different smartphone devices, and the
intervention was conducted for three days before and after the intervention. Ambulatory measurements of
loneliness and daily social contact were obtained. The results showed a 22% percent decrease in loneliness
in monitoring plus acceptance compared to monitor only and control training; moreover, it increased two or
more interactions each day and one more personal interaction compared to the active-only and monitoring-
only groups [20].

As seen by the results, both meditation skills help improve social contact with people and decrease
loneliness, which might help improve overall mental health. This study also makes us question if social
contact increases with meditation; it might also have a positive effect on problems like social anxiety
disorder. It is believed that social anxiety disorder results from negative self-belief, emotional disturbances,
and attention biases about yourself [21]. Does meditation affect social anxiety disorder? A study was
conducted in which 16 participants were included, and functional MRI scans were obtained while reacting to
negative self-belief and also performing a mindful breath-focused emotional regulation. Fourteen
participants finished the study, and the results showed that conscious attention led to reduced amygdala
activity; decreased anxiety, depression symptoms, and self-esteem; and decreased negative symptoms [21].
It is seen that mental aberrations are something that can be balanced through meditative practices.

Given the above, we can say that meditation has been helpful in various mental disorders; when discussing
mental disorders, 7-8% of the people in the united states have post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and
they have residual symptoms following the trauma that needs to be treated. It has been seen that meditation
and yoga practices have been effective in alleviating those symptoms [22]. If you look at meditation
practices on a broader spectrum, it appears as if meditative practices have an overall positive impact on our
health. It affects different aspects, including immunology, genetics, and physical and mental health, as
discussed. Its effect on the body should be addressed and investigated in greater detail to see if its impact on
a disease is good enough to incorporate it as an adjunct to the standard treatment. The problem in such
practices could be in their application of how someone meditates and how much effect it has on the disease;
moreover, the experiments might also require an increased sample size to come to a suitable conclusion. The
illness that can be tested is also limited; on the whole, more studies with more diverse diseases should be
done to conclude their efficacy and their certainty for it to be established clinically. Figure 2 below shows the
aspects of mental health influenced by meditation.

The health benefits of meditation discussed in this article have positively affected the immune system and
genetics. Mindfulness has shown an improved anti-inflammatory response and healthy aging by appropriate
telomerase regulation. There are also fruitful benefits seen in physical and mental health, which are positive.
Further studies with a larger sample size are needed to determine the magnitude of its effect. As shown by
the studies, the diseases in which meditative practices are currently used and are helpful should be
continued and recommended. For reflective practice to have clinical benefit, the diversity of the studied
diseases should be increased to provide more information about its effect. Moreover, there should be trained
professionals who should teach people how to meditate to make its product more pronounced and accurate.
More research should be conducted on the topic in the future to have more clinical benefits.

