Guided Meditation: No Agenda (10 minutes)

00:03: So, notice the posture that you've chosen. And as you tune into your posture, allowing yourself to take a
few moments to really be supported. So if you're sitting in a chair, notice the support of the floor underneath
your feet, or the bottom of the chair under your thighs and pelvis. Even the back of the chair against your lower
back. And if you're in another posture, then notice all of the contact points that support the body, when taking a
moment to intentionally and consciously receive the support. Allowing the body to settle into and be held by the
support. You can consciously do this by allowing the body to soften and relax, even if it's not the best posture.

[20 second pause]

Now, from this place of support of being held, notice all of the experience that's happening right now in the
present moment. There's the sensations of the body constantly changing moment to moment. It was all the
sensations of breathing, the rhythm in the movement of air with each in breath and each out breath.

[30 second pause]

03:06: There's even the sounds, the sound of my voice and the sounds in the room. Maybe even internal sounds.
So all of this is happening in the present moment, and there's nothing you need to do. All you need is to shift
into being, having no agenda.

[40 second pause]

04:06: And you may notice that thoughts will arise, thoughts about the future and the past. There may even be
some emotion, some feeling. Worry. Anxiety. Maybe even a little bit of guilt about taking the time and the space
to be, not needing to do anything. And if you notice these thoughts or emotions, allow yourself to entangle,
resting with the experience that's happening right now. The feeling of the body. Movement of the breath. And
sound as it is appearing and disappearing.

[1 minute pause]

06:06: This state of being is open and vast. And it's restful.

[20 second pause]

06:33: If you notice that your mind is particularly active, then you might pick one present moment experience.
The feeling of the body. Or the movement of the breath. Noticing sounds as they appear and disappear. And any
one of these present moment experiences can help to gather the mind, help it to settle more into the present
moment.

[1 minute pause]

08:13: Notice if there's any unnecessary effort or tension in the body like you're subtly trying to do something,
make something happen. And if you notice that, allow yourself to rest and to soften in the body, again, noticing
the support of the ground or the chair or any of the other contact points of the body supported by the floor.

[1 minute pause]

09:36: Now finally, you might set the intention to bring this state of being into the rest of your day so that when
you begin to do, it's informed by this state of being that's open, restful, non agitated.

