Week One: Grounding Meditation (5 minutes)

00:01: So find a relaxed, comfortable position, keeping your back upright, but not stiff, allowing your hands to
rest wherever is comfortable on your legs or in your lap. And then, allowing your eyes to gently close if that
feels comfortable, or allowing them to be open with a relaxed soft gaze, taking a moment to invite your mouth
to be relaxed, the teeth to slightly drift apart, your lips to lightly touch, and your tongue to rest wherever is
comfortable. And inviting your attention to really become internally aware, this internal orientation. Feeling
your body and noticing your body from the inside. Inviting in a sense of relaxation and also a bit of curiosity
and interest.

01:25: Noticing different qualities of your body. Noticing the steadiness of your posture. Noticing the solidity
of your body. Awareness of all of the contact points, the connection points between your body and the chair, the
floor, even your hands resting on your legs or in your lap. You may even notice the felt sense of gravity, that
gentle pull towards the ground. As much as you can, holding all of this with a sense of ease and relaxation.

02:27: And now, inviting your attention to tune into the natural flow of your breath, and seeing if you can
notice the felt sense of your breath wherever it is felt most easily and naturally. It might be your belly. It might
be your chest, or it might be noticing your breath at your nostrils. And allowing the breath to be natural, not
controlling, nothing you need to do. You're tuning into the rhythm of the in and the out breath, moment to
moment.

03:17: Now you may notice at times that your attention wanders. It drifts away from your breath and your
body, and it might get caught in thinking, planning, or worrying. And this is normal. It's not a problem. Your
attention will drift. At some point, you'll notice that it's drifted. And this is when you get to practice kindness
and patience. So reconnecting your attention with your breath and your body. No need to yank the attention
back. Holding it with a real sense of gentleness, patience. So now, let's practice in silence together for a few
moments, remembering that there's nowhere to go. And each time the attention drifts simply returning with real
kindness and gentleness.

[30 second pause]

04:45: So let's end by taking a few moments to appreciate that you've taken this time to intentionally become
embodied, creating a pause and a break from the constant doing and returning to a sense of being with your
body and breath. So remembering that you can practice this throughout your day as needed.

