Guided Meditation: Befriending Yourself (12 minutes)

00:01: Allow yourself to take a moment to be as comfortable and relaxed as you can. Noticing if there's any
effort, any sense of needing to do anything. There may even be a subtle sense of bracing or holding
somewhere in the body. And so as much as is possible in this moment, as we begin, allow yourself to soften
both the attitude, the way that you're relating to what's happening right now. And also softening in the body
itself. As much as is possible right now.

[18 second pause]

01:18: And with a sense of real gentleness, real ease. Allowing yourself to connect with the felt sense of your
own aliveness. And as you sense your own aliveness in this moment, notice if there is any sense of well
being. And often we can sense this well-being, as ease, as comfort, more sense of okayness. It can be the
absence of struggle

[30 second pause]

02:46: So finding some sense of well being in whatever degree it's present in your experience right now. So
it might be in the mind. It might be in the body.

[20 second pause]

And inviting this sense of well being to expand and grow. By placing the attention with this felt sense of well
being. It will naturally start to grow and expand with the continuity of your attention. That's a very gentle and
easy way.

[20 second pause]

04:22: And notice that the attention may drift. At times, it may move away from the sense of well being. And
we can hold this wandering attention with a sense of kindness, sense of friendliness or gentleness. This is just
what the mind does. At times, it drifts. And then with real care and kindness. No sense of rush. Reconnecting
again with whatever felt sense of well being is present to whatever degree in your experience right now.

[20 second pause]

05:46: And you might reflect for a moment that this movement towards well being. Is always present. Any
time we have discomfort in the body, or we experience a difficult thought or emotion, there's an impulse to
try to relieve that discomfort with that difficult thought or emotion. And this is actually the energy of
well-being, trying to bring comfort, trying to help support, whatever the difficulty or discomfort might be.
And all beings have this experience. You might take a moment to appreciate this quality, this natural
tendency to support well being and ease.

[1:20 minute pause]

07:52: And we can expand this investigation, this practice, even a little bit further. So take a moment in your
awareness to notice how there is this natural appreciation, warmth, goodwill, friendliness. And that this
quality or this texture naturally arises when we drop into the felt sense of being alive; not having to do
anything. Noticing the gift and the joy of being alive.

[1 minute pause]

09:37: And then we might take a moment to expand this just a bit further, reflecting on all of the beings that
are connected with our life. So this could be human beings or it could be pets and animals that are in our life.
And reflecting how all of these beings also have this sense of well being. And we might take a moment to
connect with this larger group of beings that touch our life and allow ourselves to extend this sense of
well being to include all of these other animals and human beings that are part of our life, and to wish them a
sense of well being of knowing their own friendliness, goodwill, kindness, their own fundamental okayness.
In these last few moments, notice how your heart is. How does it feel at this moment? And allowing yourself
to appreciate your own good heart.

