Guided Meditation: Connecting to Community (16 minutes)

00:00: For this practice, it's helpful to have the eyes closed, but not required. So decide for yourself if you'd
like the eyes open with a soft gaze, or allow your eyes to gently close. Allow yourself to take a few moments
now to really become embodied. Noticing how you feel. Noticing if you're holding or bracing in your body.
Sometimes you can feel this in your shoulders, or your jaw, around your eyes. Perhaps even in your spine.
Noticing if there's any holding or bracing, and then as much as you can, to whatever degree is possible right
now, allowing yourself to relax and soften the body.

[30 second pause]

01:58: Allow yourself to notice that you're alive and that you're breathing. Consciously connecting with a few
deep belly breaths.

[25 second pause]

02:51: And now from this place of feeling more embodied, feeling more present, allow yourself to recall or
remember a difficult situation at work. And let this be a situation where you feel stuck, or you feel like there
are few good options. Or you feel a sense of isolation, almost like you're having to carry this particular
challenge on your own.

[20 second pause]

03:48: Then allow yourself to visualize this for a moment. So what sights, images come into your mind. As
you recall this difficulty at work.

[16 second pause]

04:19: Notice if there are any voices or other sounds that go along with this difficulty. It could be perhaps the
sound of disagreement, of argument or it might be the sound of silence as though there are no voices. There's
a lack of support or a lack of acknowledgment.

[30 second pause]

05:10: And notice how your body feels as you recall this difficulty. As you remember this challenging part of
work. And now allow yourself to pinpoint or imagine a moment where you felt like this was the most difficult
moment in this situation. It's almost like you were to freeze frame or take a picture, a still picture of that
moment. And you can imagine yourself in this picture frozen for a moment in time with this difficult work
situation.

[35 second pause]

06:36: And now in your awareness, imagine that one or two other colleagues or coworkers were to join you in
this picture or to join you in this situation. It's as though they stepped into the frame, and let these two
colleagues and coworkers be people that you trust. So if you choose one person or two people. This person or
these people. People that you really can relax in their presence. You can trust that they support you. You can
trust their intentions. You might even imagine that they are physically supporting you. Standing next to you,

shoulder to shoulder, or maybe perhaps even placing a hand on your shoulder in a gesture of support.

[30 second pause]

08:08: You might even imagine that they're offering words of support and encouragement. What would they
say? And you know what these words are, trust your intuition. It's as though you're hearing these words from
your colleague or these two colleagues. And really receive these words of encouragement and support.

[50 second pause]

09:40: And now imagine that this colleague or these colleagues were to give you a small gift, a small box.
And that you receive this gift from these colleagues, these coworkers that you really feel supported by, that
you trust. And now imagine that you are opening the small box and inside is a gift and you know what the gift
is. Again, trust your intuition. And that this small gift inside the box has some meaning for you. So take a
moment to connect with this gift that you've received. Noticing it. And if it's difficult to see what it is, you
might hold it up to the light so that you can see it more clearly. And again, you know what this gift is. Trust
your intuition. It's a gift that is offered as a form of support.

11:30: So now, this coworker or these two coworkers tell you that it's time for them to go. They have to get
back to the rest of their day, but they're so glad that they were able to spend time with you to offer their
support, particularly during this difficulty that you were facing. This challenge at work. And before they
leave, they remind you one more time that they are always there to offer support. That you can trust them.
That they really have got your best interest at heart. And now you say goodbye as they step out of the
situation, step out of the frame. They leave that particular difficult moment. Now notice what it's like in your
own body. How does your body feel now after having been in the presence of these coworkers or this
particular coworker? Having received some words of encouragement and a small gift. Notice your mood.

[1 minute pause]

13:21: What feelings are present? And notice how your mind is. Is it agitated or is it more still, more gathered
and collected?

13:47: Now in this last moment, set the intention to remember that you have a community of support, whether
it's another colleague or two colleagues, maybe even more. But there is a community of support. And if you
forget, you can remember the gift that you received, or the words of encouragement and support that you
heard, or even just taking a moment to recall the images of these co-workers or the image of this particular
coworker. And remembering that there is this wider network of support, and that as soon as we recall this
connection, this community, it can reorient us towards well-being, towards strength, and towards energy to
help us move through the difficult situation. Now you can let the meditation go and open your eyes if they are
closed.

