Guided Meditation: Connecting with Values (9 minutes)

00:01: For this next practice, it's helpful to have the eyes closed, but again not required. So decide for yourself
if you like your eyes open or closed. Take a few moments to really feel the felt sense of your body, noticing
your posture, and inviting in a sense of ease and settled-ness.

[10 second pause]

00:58: Allowing yourself enough time to shift into this being mode. So from this place of embodied presence,
noticing your own aliveness, allow yourself to reflect on some quality about yourself that you really appreciate.
It might be your humor or your patience. Could be a sense of kindness, or it might be your wit or intelligence.
So allow yourself to connect with some quality that you really appreciate about yourself.

[35 second pause]

02:45: And if you find it difficult to recall a quality yourself, then you might remember some quality that a
friend or a family member or a coworker shared with you, some quality they appreciated.

[1 minute pause]

03:29: So as you connect with this quality, allow yourself to reflect on the value. What is the value that's
supported by this quality? So for example, if it's kindness, the value might be connection with other human
beings. Or if the quality is humor, then you might have a value of noticing the joy, or lightheartedness of
different moments in your own life.

[20 second pause]

04:52: Now, see if you can sense this value in your own body. So what does the value of connectedness, or the
value of noticing the joy, or lightheartedness of life? What does that feel like in your body? Connecting with
your value. And, with your awareness, invite this felt sense of this value to expand, and to grow. So that it fills
your entire body.

[1 minute pause]

06:16: You might even imagine for a moment that with each in breath and each out breath, every cell, every
pore of your body is breathing in this value. And with each exhale, every pore and every cell of your body was
breathing out this value. So from this place of alignment with your value, allow yourself to imagine for a
moment that it was five years, or ten years from now. And you have been living fully in this value. Completely
aligned with this value, and living from it. Allow yourself to imagine how you would be in the world. How
would you feel? How would you be navigating the world? What would you be doing? And now, in this last few
moments, these last few moments, notice how you feel. And allow yourself to recognize that the quality that
you started with is already present. So it's not something you need to do, all you need is to remember to align
yourself with this quality. That puts you in connection with your value. And from this space, you can live your
life.

