Week Six: Appreciation Allowing yourself to find a comfortable and relaxed posture, whatever that means for your body. Allow yourself to notice your internal experience, drawing the awareness into what's happening internally. Notice if there's any holding in your body. There might be an expression on your face that you're holding on to. Or you might be holding in your belly. Or there might be some bracing in the legs or even the toes or the fingers maybe are curling just a bit. As much as you can, soften through the body. And as the body settles and softens, you'll naturally notice your own aliveness, the sensations of the body, all of the movement of breathing each in-breath and each out-breath. And with your internal awareness, connect with the movement, the rhythm of your own breathing and reflect for a moment that each in-breath and out-breath supports your life, supports you being alive. It's nourishment to the body. For as long as you've been alive, you've been breathing. And as you reflect on the power and the nourishment of your own breath, try offering a genuine and heartfelt, "Thank you." Then allow yourself to connect with the feeling or the intention behind these words, behind the "Thank you." And now, taking a slightly deeper inhale and a slightly deeper exhale. Again, inviting the body to soften, to relax. This time, in your awareness connect for a moment with the felt sense of your entire body. This amazing body that despite whatever difficulties or limitations it may have, has always done whatever you have asked of it to the best of its abilities. It's been a companion, always willing to offer to the best of its abilities whatever is asked of it. And as you reflect on this amazing body, try offering another genuine heartfelt thank you. And allowing yourself, again, to connect with the meaning and the intention behind these words. Thank you. Now take another slightly deeper inhale, slightly deeper exhale, allowing the body to soften and relax even more. Allow yourself to connect with the mystery of your own life. So we have ups and we have downs, there's joy and there's sorrow, but each life is unique and your life unfolds in its own mysterious way. And so as you reflect on the mystery of your own life, try offering, again, genuine and heartfelt thank you for the gift of being alive. Now taking one deeper in-breath and a deeper out-breath, allow yourself to reflect on all of the people, situations, or just your own good fortune or good health. And as you reflect on any aspect of your life, whether it's people, situations, or your own good fortune or good health, try offering, again, a genuine and heartfelt thank you. Really appreciating all of the conditions, all of the support that we often take for granted. And in these last few moments, notice how your body feels. Notice your mood, your emotions. How do you feel at this moment? Then notice your mind. Is it settled and calm or is it agitated and restless? Now you can let this meditation go